##  Date

##  Participants

List meeting participants using their @ mention names

- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 

##  Action items

Add action items to close the loop on open questions or discussion
topics:

413 incomplete [R11.A is delayed. Original closure was March 2nd which
now stands at March 14th for integration complete (March 10 for dev
complete).]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

414 incomplete [Contributing factors to delay include few flows in user
rewards, open items in OTP for international numbers and changes in the
Experiment API.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

415 incomplete [EDIT: For multi-device & NLI flows for User Rewards,
protocols & APIs are closed and updated to stage cc .
]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

416 incomplete [International OTP: to close open items. to come back on
ETA for closure.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

417 incomplete [Auto-detection of country code for mobile number login
marked as NTH and not a blocker for release.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

418 incomplete [Experiment API → Merge with Register API → protocol
discussion complete and API to be updated.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

419 incomplete [Decisioning on whether Live should be merged into R11.A
or not to be done.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

420 incomplete [Theme-based approach for subsequent releases discussed
(list for immediate next track below) where there would be 4 parallel
themes + hygiene track running.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

421 incomplete [Chat & memes would be one converged theme and track and
would also include Meme Zone.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

422 incomplete [Sharing memes would mean that support for static content
inside Feed will also now be supported and all teams should plan
accordingly.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

423 incomplete [Meme creation will start with gallery upload in the
immediate next phase and creation tools for memes will be added
subsequently.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

424 incomplete [Product walkthrough for items to be planned and will be
coordinated separately offline.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

425 incomplete [List of tracks:\
\
**Live:**]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

1.  \[BE\] Live Feed Algorithm Improvements

2.  Ability for speakers to bump themselves back to audience

3.  Ability to kick users out of a room

4.  Ability for live co-hosts to switch video off

5.  Inline Follow Icon

**Chat & Memes:**

1.  PoC

2.  Community Building (Templates + Meme Creator + Content Ops Tools)

3.  Meme Zone

**Discovery & Search:**

1.  Search videos by string

**Camera & Creation:**

1.  Camera UX Improvements

**Hygiene & Improvements:**

1.  Load TRTC SDK dynamically

2.  Load SendBird SDK dynamically

3.  Show website in profile

4.  \<Amit & Santo to add client items here\>

##  Decisions

Type /decision to record the decisions you make in this meeting:

426 incomplete [Multi-creator follow → Notification tool will
pre-generate creator avatar and send through the notification pipeline.
No BE or transcoding dependency.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}
