##  Date

##  Participants

List meeting participants using their @ mention names

- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 
- 

##  Action items

Add action items to close the loop on open questions or discussion
topics:

448 incomplete [Ads: \'Follow\' CTA for Notifications Sitting in Tray →
Karan to reach out to Santo and close client
dependencies]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

449 incomplete [R11.A to be delayed by a day or two -- closure on User
Rewards and some other tracks owing to team members
leave]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

450 incomplete [Sprint timelines for both Set A and B have been revised:
Set A with additional week for Android 12 now stands on 2nd March
(originally Feb 23rd for completion) and Set 2 proposed to kickstart
around 10th Feb (originally March 2nd for completion). Client team
requesting call to discuss Set B in detail to arrive at timelines for
sprint closure.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

451 incomplete [Some BE APIs are still in-progress or not uploaded owing
to migration and all will be updated by ]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

452 incomplete [User Rewards voucher section → updated card layout
variants based on meta to be updated by . ]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

453 incomplete [Notifications → Multi-follow → image creation → to setup
call to close with and Bhanu]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

454 incomplete [Filters for Inbox Notifications: callout that additional
filter_types do not exist and factoring in extensibility is a time
involved activity that cannot be taken up by currently owing to several
other tasks (may not close by R11.A). ]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

455 incomplete [Chat & IM base AAR integration to be done in R11.B in a
separate branch for the agency to kickstart QA. Feature live will be in
the subsequent release.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

456 incomplete [Notification full-sync done from client. Protocol
similar to DH. to close BE dependencies.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

457 incomplete [Experiment API response → if delayed, wait on splash or
moved to Feed to close with Shailendra.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

458 incomplete [Anonymous calls discussion with client
complete.]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}

##  Decisions

Type /decision to record the decisions you make in this meeting:

459 incomplete [Filters for Inbox Notifications: All filters to be
associated with existing notification types 'Content' and 'Social' so
that client can integrate it with configurability (header type and field
to be same or different to be closed)]{.placeholder-inline-tasks}
