## Create a stellar overview

The overview is the first page visitors will see when they visit your
space, so it helps to include some information on what the space is
about and what your team is working on.

**Add a header image.** This gives your overview visual appeal and makes
it welcoming for visitors.

**Explain what the space is for.** Start by summarizing the purpose of
the space. This could be your team\'s mission statement or a brief
description of the kind of work you do.

**Share team goals.** Add links to your team\'s
[OKRs](https://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence/templates/okrs),
[project
plans](https://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence/templates/project-plan),
and [product
roadmaps](https://www.atlassian.com/software/confluence/templates/product-roadmap)
so visitors can quickly get a sense of your team\'s goals.

**Tell people how to contact you.** Share your timezone and links to
Slack channels, email aliases, or other contact details your team uses
so visitors can contact you with questions or feedback about your
team\'s work.

## Use shortcuts for easy access

Shortcuts are helpful for important pages that members of a space might
need to get to often. These shortcuts are added and organized by the
space administrator. Space admins can link to pages in the space, other
related spaces, or relevant external web content as well as reorder the
shortcuts as needed.

## Start discussions with inline comments

Thoughtful responses can get lost and lose context as email replies pile
up. And if you neglect to copy someone or want to add them later on,
it\'s difficult for them to get up to speed. [[Inline
comments]{.underline}](https://support.atlassian.com/confluence-cloud/docs/comment-on-pages-and-blog-posts/)
allow anyone (or everyone) to huddle around an idea while referencing
key information on the project page.

To leave an inline comment, highlight text on the page and the comment
icon will appear.

Team members with permission to access the page can respond to any
comment. Plus, when a comment thread comes to its natural conclusion,
comments can be resolved and cleared away.

## Loop in team members with \@mentions

[[\@mentions]{.underline}](https://support.atlassian.com/confluence-cloud/docs/mention-a-person-or-team/)
on Confluence function like \@mentions on social media platforms like
Twitter, Instagram, and Slack. Type the @ symbol on a Confluence page or
in a comment, begin spelling a team member\'s first name, and a list
will appear. Select the individual to ask a question or assign a task.

## Endorse ideas with reactions

Use reactions when you want to support a comment or acknowledge you\'ve
seen one without clogging up the thread with another comment.

You can also use reactions on a page or blog post. The author of the
content will be notified, and if enough team members react or add
comments to the content, it\'ll be surfaced on Confluence home feed

## Take your Confluence space to the next level

Extend the capabilities of your Confluence pages by adding extra
functionality or including dynamic content.

**To add functionality:**

1.  Type \' / \' to open the list of items available to use

2.  Find the item to be inserted and select it

3.  Select **Insert**

## Useful elements for Team space

**Introduce the team**

Add [user
profiles](https://support.atlassian.com/confluence-cloud/docs/insert-the-user-profile-macro/)
to display a short summary of a given Confluence user\'s profile with
their role, profile photo and contact details.

**Share news and announcements with your team**

Display a stream of latest [blog
posts](https://support.atlassian.com/confluence-cloud/docs/insert-the-blog-posts-macro/)
so your team can easily see what\'s been going on.

**Display a list of important pages**

Paste in page URLs to create smart links, or use the [content report
table](https://support.atlassian.com/confluence-cloud/docs/insert-the-content-report-table-macro/)
to create a list of all the pages in the space.
