**Overview**

The Sign Up/Sign In page allows users to seamlessly access their account
and purchases across multiple devices. By signing up/signing in, users
can get a personalized reading experience tailored to their preferences
and reading habits.

**Sign Up/Sign In Page**

**1. Continue with Email:** Enables users to sign up/sign in with their
email address.

**2. Continue with Mobile Number:** Enables users to sign up/sign in
with their mobile number.

**3. Continue with Google:** Enables users to sign up/sign in with their
Google account.

**4. Facebook icon:** Enables users to sign up/sign in with their
Facebook account.

**5. X (Twitter) icon:** Enables users to sign up/sign in with their X
(Twitter) account.

**A. Continue with Email Flow**

Once users tap on the "Continue with Email" button, the following screen
appears.

**New Users**

Once users enter their email address and tap on the "Continue" button,
the following screen appears for new users, where they can enter their
details and tap on the "Submit" button to create an account on Magzter.

**Existing Users**

Once users enter their email address and tap on the "Continue" button,
the following screen appears for existing users.

- Users can enter their password to sign in or they can request an OTP
  by tapping on "Sign in via OTP".

- Users can also tap on "Forgot Password?" to reset their password.

**Password Flow**

Users can enter their password and tap on the "Sign In" button to access
their account.

**Sign in via OTP Flow**

Once users tap on "Sign in via OTP", an OTP is sent to their email
address and the following screen appears. Users can enter the OTP
received via email and tap on the "Submit" button to access their
account.

**Forgot Password Flow**

Once users tap on "Forgot Password?", the following screen appears.

Once users enter their email address and tap on the "Submit" button, an
email is sent to users with instructions on how to reset their password
and the following acknowledgement screen appears.

**B. Continue with Mobile Number Flow**

Once users tap on the "Continue with Mobile Number" button, the
following screen appears.

Once users enter their mobile number and tap on the "Request OTP"
button, the following screen appears where they can enter the OTP
received on their mobile number and tap on the "Submit" button to access
their account.
